# WarehousingAnalyticsProject
Group Project: Foundations of Data Analytics and Statistical Programming:
The aim of the project was to improve warehouse processes and logistics through data science by analyzing warehouse operations, predicting order volumes, and optimizing staffing needs. The primary goal was to develop dashboards that provide managers with insights into order patterns, staffing requirements, and warehouse efficiency. To achieve this, we cleaned and analyze product data, identified trends in warehouse sections and order flows, compared activity over time, and detected correlations between product groups and order sequences. Ultimately, we created a fully functional PowerBI dashboard that we used to provide relevant insights and recommendations on how to optimize warehouse processes.

The ETL process for the warehouse logistics project followed an approach using Python for data extraction, transformation, and loading into Power BI with a Snowflake schema. The data focused primarily on the last three years in order to provide a more relevant analysis.  The transformation phase addressed inconsistencies by flagging missing values, zero and negative pick volumes, duplicate records, and outliers, along others. Specific issues such as repeated order numbers across years, differing measurement units for the same product, and multiple sources for single orders were identified and corrected. Statistical analysis, including univariate analysis, highlighted a strong right skew in pick volumes, necessitating data reduction to improve accuracy. By addressing these inconsistencies, the dataset was cleaned, structured, and prepared for effective visualization. 

The loading phase involved integrating the cleaned data into Power BI, using a Snowflake schema to optimize query performance and KPI calculations. The creation of the Key performance indicators themselves was another task that I lead as well, as it was not provided by the warehouse team - I had to intuitively create these KPI's based on the understanding of their business and other underlying factors; such as warehouse efficiency, correlating products and order flow management.  These KPIs were then computed on demand using Python's various libraries, and then visualized on PowerBI as well.  Having said that, the final ETL pipeline ensured data consistency and enabled comprehensive dashboard insights fort the warehouse's optimization strategy. Some optimisations that we offered based on the data that we analyzed was; rezoning product groups based on correlation and demand forecasting, bundleing high-demand products to optimize packaging and shipping processes, and reallocate underutilized warehouse sections and floors. 
